M2 - Added pictures, videos, text edits (#522)
htw-imi-showtime/showtime-website: content/ss26/master/m2-agenticai-in-virtual-worlds/_index.md

2. **Interactive Science Showcase**: To develop a practical showcase for F4F using state-of-the-art tools (LangChain, Unity, RAG). By translating their research into a gamified prototype, an Embodied AI chef acts as an intelligent guide. This replaces rigid educational scripts with dynamic, conversational play, enabling users to actively discover and experiment with sustainable ingredients.

{{</section>}}

{{<section title="Process and Outcome">}}

**Concept & Scope**  
Drawing on concepts from our courses in Human-AI-Interaction, Game Design, and Web Development, we designed an interactive 3D learning framework to communicate complex sustainability research. To balance technical feasibility with educational depth, we focused the experience on a targeted culinary scenario in a from of a virtual small restaurant. This constrained environment allows us to effectively demonstrate the capabilities of an Embodied AI and contextualize F4F's vision for locally cultivated ingredients without the overhead of complex, rigid game loops.

**Implementation**  

> Development followed an iterative process bridging game design and artificial intelligence. The interactive environment is built using Unity and C#, presenting a responsive 3D kitchen where the Embodied AI is visually represented as a virtual assisstant-scientist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Development followed an iterative process bridging game design and artificial intelligence. The interactive environment is built using Unity and C#, presenting a responsive 3D kitchen where the Embodied AI is visually represented as a virtual assistant-scientist.
```

The backend architecture replaces standard finite-state machine NPC logic by utilizing LangChain to orchestrate a Large Language Model (LLM) and a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline. This pipeline is populated with F4F's scientific material on novel foods. To enable a seamless, hands-free interface, the system integrates Speech-to-Text (STT) and Text-to-Speech (TTS) models. Together, this setup allows the AI to process the player's spoken inquiries and in-game actions, retrieve context-aware information, and generate scientifically accurate, voiced dialogue dynamically.

Despite the challenges of synchronizing real-time 3D state changes with generative AI latency and speech processing, the team successfully combined expertise in 3D environment development and AI backend architecture to deliver a fluid, embodied experience.

**Outcome**  

> The prototype enables the playful exploration of future nutrition, allowing users to discover ingredient substitutions and recipes using novel food algae. Traditional game mechanics are complemented by open-ended interactions, enabling the AI chef to answer spontaneous questions, have disussions with customers and assisst during the cooking. This framework helps users, especially younger audiences, to efficiently grasp sustainable cooking concepts through hands-on collaboration rather than passive instruction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The prototype enables the playful exploration of future nutrition, allowing users to discover ingredient substitutions and recipes using novel food algae. Traditional game mechanics are complemented by open-ended interactions, enabling the AI chef to answer spontaneous questions, have discussions with customers and assist during the cooking. This framework helps users, especially younger audiences, to efficiently grasp sustainable cooking concepts through hands-on collaboration rather than passive instruction.
```
